SwikiAction is the action to implement a Swiki, a collaborative website.  This is a web server in Squeak.  The pages may be viewed from any web browser, and the URL is http://thisMachine:80/OurOwnArea.1  ('OurOwnArea' is the name of the Swiki area.)  See http://guzdial.cc.gatech.edu:8080/myswiki for an example focused on discussing Swikis.

Swiki is based on the Wiki Server, designed and implemented by Ward Cunningham.  See the original Wiki at http://c2.com/cgi-bin/wiki, or the Squeak-focused one at http://c2.com:8080/

See PWS class howToStart.

Modified by Ted Kaehler to have all state on the disk at all times.  Do not snapshot the image during normal server operation.  Restart the server by loading all state from the disk.

Each separate Wiki is a folder inside the Server folder.  The name of the folder is the name of the Wiki, Each page is a file.  (Inefficient on Macs because of large minimum page size, but that's an OS problem.)  All versions of all pages are kept.  Each page contains chunks, just like a changes file.  Each chunk is one version of one page:

self name: 'Ted''s Page' date: '1/28/1998' time: '12:47:21' by: 'tk' text: 'Here is the body of the page' back: 116!

The last item is number of bytes in the chunk.  It is the number of bytes from just in front of the number to the start of the chunk.  This allows back-chaining to old versions.  On startup, the chunk is executed explicitly using evaluate:for:logged:.  It supplies the page name to a SwikiPage and installs it in the URLmap.  By doing this for all files in the folder, the map (url->page) is built.  During operation, the chunk is not executed.  Instead, take the file directly, look at 'back:' at the end, jump back to the start of the chunk, scan for 'text:' and read the text. 

The looks of the pages served are controlled by templates.  They live in the 'swiki' folder in the 'Server' folder.  Beware that templates are cached by HTMLformatter.  If you change a template, you will not see the effect until you reload the Swiki.